---
webinar-id: 15
date: 2018-02-28T13:00-0500
title: "Jupyter and HPC: Current State and Future Roadmap"
presenter-ids: [bussonnier-matthias, somnath-suhas, cholia-shreyas]
archives:
  - label: Video
    format: YouTube
    url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKah_O5OZdE
  - label: Slides
    format: PDF
    url: http://ideas-productivity.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/webinar015-slides.pdf
  - label: Q&A
    format: PDF
    url: http://ideas-productivity.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/webinar015-qa.pdf
---
During the last few years the Jupyter notebook has become one of the
tools of choice for the data science and high-performance computing
(HPC) communities. This webinar will provide an overview of why
Jupyter is gaining traction in education, data science, and HPC, with
emphasis on how notebooks can be used as interactive documents for
exploration and reporting.  We will present an overview of how Jupyter
works and how the network protocol can be leveraged for both a local
single machine and remote-cluster work.  We will discuss the nuts and
bolts of how Jupyter has been deployed at NERSC as a case study in
implementation of Jupyter in an HPC environment. This work implies
learning the Jupyter ecosystem to take advantage of its powerful
abstractions to develop custom infrastructure to satisfy policies and
user needs.  The webinar will show, as a use case, how Jupyter
notebooks have transformed data discovery, visualization, and
interactive analysis for the scanning probe and electron microscopy
communities at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. It will also show how
notebooks can seamlessly accommodate measurements from a wide variety
of instruments through Pycroscopy, a framework for instrument agnostic
data storage and analysis.
