---
webinar-id: 29
date: 2019-05-08T13:00-0400
title: So, You Want to Be Agile? Strategies for Introducing Agility Into Your Scientific Software Project
author: Mike Heroux (SNL)
---
Scientific software team cultures have natural consistencies with
agile practices. Discovery-driven development, a focus on regular
delivery of results, in-person discussions within and across research
teams, and a focus on long-term sustainable research programs are
commonplace dynamics on computational science teams that develop
software. These dynamics are also particular expressions of core agile
principles.  

Many scientific software teams have already assimilated industry best
practices in some aspects of their work. The advent of open software
development platforms such as GitHub and GitLab have accelerated
awareness and adoption, as have numerous on-line resources that enable
a motivated person to continue learning new ideas and approaches. Even
so, we propose that a healthy team habit is continued exploration and
improvement of software practices, processes and skills.

In this webinar, we discuss a few agile practices and strategies that
are readily adapted and adopted by scientific software teams. In
addition, we describe an attitude and strategy for continual process
improvement that enables computational science teams to simultaneously
deliver science results and, at the same time, dedicate a slice of
time to improving software practices on their way to delivering those
results.
